from Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two 29.
Recorded live Thursday, August 19th, 2007. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Telerik rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Andrew
Arnott about open ID and
open off. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes this
week on Hanselman it's I'm
sporting a summer cold. It
is 96 degrees outside, and
I am sick as a
dog, but fortunately my guest
Andrew are not, is not
sick. Are you? Well, sir,
I am fantastic. That makes
at least one of us.
Cause I am dying over
here. It's absolutely ridiculous. I
feel like it's a Christmas
cold and it's in the
heat of the summer. I
just got over a cold
myself. All right. Yeah. Everyone
is sick right now. So
you are the, the lead
on the.net open auth project.
That's right. Can you explain
to me this used to
be called Don an open
ID and there's always openness
and open that. And I
think that most people who
are listening know of open
off, because they know that
sometimes an application will ask
Twitter for permission to do
something and that's their exposure
to open off. But can
you kind of back up
a little bit and explain
what open ideas, why your
project changed from open ID
to open off and kind
of explain this, this open
ecosystem out there for me?
Sure. So open ID is
an open protocol for authentication
and dotnet open ID was
one of the first.net libraries
to implement open ID. It
would just authenticate users. It
wouldn't give them the sites
that they're logging into permission
to access their information on
some other website though, for
example, Twitter, you've probably seen
the sign in with Twitter
buttons, Right? Right. So you
can sign up to a
site you're not signing into
Twitter, you're shutting into a
particular site using your Twitter
ID. Exactly, exactly. That's that's
typically, you know, the, the
scenario that open ID covers
Twitter. However, because people who
sign in with Twitter typically
want to be able to
socialize and say, Hey, I'm
doing such and such on
this particular website and maybe
I'm listening to an MP3
while they're on a, some
music playing website and they
want to be able to
have that website automatically tell
their Twitter friends what they're
listening to. So Twitter has
chosen instead of using open
ID too, they were one
of the first adopters of
ooff, which they they've co-opted
to also be authentication, but
they're using it for its
authorization aspect as well. So
that as you're logging in
using Twitter, you're also granting
the site you're logging into
permission to post to your
Twitter feed. so.net opened Heidi
because OAuth was becoming more
and more popular, added off
support. And at that point,
calling the library open ID,
when it, that was only
half of the story did
not make as much sense.
In fact, it also did
info card, which was another
open protocol that Microsoft started
it. So renamed it to.net
open off, and it did
open ID off and info
card. And tried to wrap
that together. That's kind of
the history, But open ID
and open auth don't relate
to each other in any
way. That's mostly accurate. They
they're orthogonal in that you
can use one or the
other, or you can use
them together and yet they
don't interact at all. However,
the, if you're going to
use them both, if you
want to say, log in
with your Google account and
access that person's maybe Gmail
contact list or something Using
them independent, Gently, but together
means that you have to
go see the Google website
twice. So they have actually
invented a hybrid protocol that
does both at the same
time. So at that point
they do have something to
do together, but they're still
mostly independent protocols. Okay. So
looking at open ID itself,
I implemented this in, in
dos blog a while back,
quite a while back actually.
And it was, you know,
I did it back, I
think before either before you
existed or right. When you
started doing the open ID,
I can't just.in it. Do
you remember if Josh blog
used to start that open
ID? I remember back when
you did it. Yeah. I
think that open ID or
back when we call it
January and open ID. Right.
And it was a very
early, early thing and it
was quite innovative at the
time. And you can see
this on my blog at
the bottom, it says open
ID and I have a
little ID selector. And then
on that ID selector, there's
a LinkedIn says get an
open ID and it sends
you off to a third
party called my open id.com.
But I don't need to
necessarily go and get an
open ID. Right. I may
already have one. Yeah. Almost
everybody on the internet has
one just because Google Yahoo
and several other very popular
email providers are also open
ID providers. So there's, I
think somebody has to be
either 20 million or 40 million or
something open ID is out
there already. Most of the
people don't realize they have
one. Okay. So, so I
know that like flicker as
an open ID, Google is
an open ID. These are
all places where if you
have a login, for example,
on my blog, if you
have a login flicker, you
can just click flick or
you put in flicker and
hit login and it'll prompt
you for your flicker password.
You're giving your flicker password
to flicker, right. Not to
my blog. Right. And what
does that interaction there? Cause
I know there's, or there's
a redirect, you go to
flicker, you sign in, you
come back and then suddenly
I have your name. I
have, I have information about
you. How has that pant
had handoff handled? Oh, there's
a couple of ways. The
basic flow is just, like
I said, it's a redirect
where your blog disappears momentarily.
And I see flicker, which
is, which is, has the
advantage of your hanselman.com URL
changes to flicker.com. And I
feel confident that I'm not
giving my password to a
site that I otherwise might
not trust. And then it
liquor authenticates me and redirects
with a special authentication token
that hanselman.com can process and
verify that it's real. And
yet, without ever seeing my
password, your site knows that
I am some flicker user
and whatever information you asked
flicker to provide with my
authentication. If I, while logging
in said that was okay,
you may already have my
email address, my name. Well,
you know, whatever it is
so that my locking into
your blog is that much
more convenient. The enhancement to
that flow is using a
popup window, which is becoming
more and more popular, where
instead of actually leaving your
site, it's just a small
area of your page that
is now occupied by flicker.
And I can log in
that way. There's a bit
more JavaScript intensity in that.
And you still have to
have a browser. It's a
full blown browser window. It's
not just an Ajax dialogue
again, just so the URL
can show up. So users
know that they're not giving
their password to the wrong
site. Okay. So if I,
from, from, from the point
of view of the user,
let's say from the point
of view of the browser,
because most of us who
are listening are web developers.
In some way, I type
in flicker.com. I hit save
comment in the, in the
instance that I'm trying to
save a comment at my
blog. I'm redirected to flicker.
I sign in to flicker,
flicker receives the post for
my password, decides whether or
not it's really me then
redirects back over and they
put something in the URL,
right? What is happening in
the back? Cause I don't
understand how, how someone couldn't
just steal or lie. How
do I know that the
secret that is redirected back?
So I'm going to give
you hanselman.com, yada yada yada
secret open ID thing. How
do I know that's not
a lie? Is there some
server side handshake that's occurring
with that client side redirection?
When you, when the user
types in that they are
a flicker user or Google
user, whatever identifier they type
in or in your blogs
case, they just click on
flicker and that all happens
automatically. But what your blog
does before it redirects to
flicker is it has a
handshake with flicker in which
your site and flicker establish
a shared secret, which is
then used for an H
HVAC signature with that secret.
What is that? An H
H max it's, It's a
hash of, so in the
authentication token that liquor will
send it back to your
blog, which otherwise anybody could
forge, right? They just change.
Oh, you know, I signed
in as Andrew in it,
but I'm going to go
change it in the URL
to say Scott Hanselman. And
then they'll think that Scott
is logging. Instead of me,
the reason that can't be
done is because with all
that information about the person
and who it is and
what their real identifier is,
they hash it. But at
the end of the data
that they're hashing, they can
catenate that shared secret, which
makes the hash not reproducible
after somebody has changed the
data because they don't have
the shared secret to tack
onto the end of it.
I see. So that makes
it cryptographically significant. Yeah. Yeah.
It makes it extremely difficult
depending on the length of
the hash. And the open
ID has a couple of
different hash links that it
can use it's practically and
feasible. And you're saying H
Mex Mex Mac, H M
a C H M a
C I C. Okay. So
then I signed it a
flicker. There's a discussion back
and forth between the client
and the server, as well
as the server and the
server to make sure that
who hanselman.com thinks you're talking
to is also who in
fact your browser is talking
to. So something bad happened.
And I had like an
evil toolbar and I wasn't
really talking to flicker. I
could be assured though, that
the hanselman.com server was in
fact talking to hanselman.com and
then the shared secrets would
not match True. Although if
you've got an evil toolbar,
they can't, and you're not
really talking to flicker.com. Well,
you've just given your password
away to the evil website.
They can do whatever they
want now, anyway, they don't
want your identity. So it's
important to trust the toolbars.
And then the, the, the
shared secret is a hash
based message, authentication code, Mac
message, authentication code, hence, and
H Mack. And that's a
well known thing. That's not
a, an open ID thing.
It's the same kind of
thing you use in, you
know, an IP sec and
TLS and things like that.
Okay. Oh, one other one
other attacks, since you mentioned
the whole substituting flicker for
enable site, the way open
ID has a couple of
different ways of exchanging that
shared secret, one of them
is really secure, and that
is if flicker is using
HTTPS, then you get the
whole public key infrastructure assurance
that they are really talking
to flicker. But in the
case, if, if you're just
doing standard HTTP then, and,
and if there's a DNS
poisoning attack occurring at your
blog or whatever, what's called
the relying party, then open
ID resorts to the Diffie
Hellman algorithm for exchanging the
secret, in which case there's
no identity assurance. And so
it's the open ID without
HDPS is vulnerable to DNS
poisoning attacks. So it's important
to always use an open
ID. That sounded really, really
interesting, but I'm gonna tease
you a little bit because
I heard blah, blah, blah,
DNS poisoning, blah, blah, blah,
Diffie Hellman, blah, blah, blah,
bad. So break that down
for me. That sounds really
interesting. What, what bad thing
can happen that will hurt
me and kill my family.
If, if somebody can get
a server, both between your
computer and flicker and between
the site you're trying to
log into and flicker. So
if they can intercept network
requests, and if they can
pull off DNS poisoning attack,
which is actually fairly difficult,
but it's possible, What does
that mean? It means if
nobody, how you'd pull it
off as if nobody has
logged in using flicker to
your blog recently, so that
the server that your blog
is running on doesn't know
where flicker.com is. Then an
attacker could get your server,
you know, start the login
process using flicker so that
your server has to look
up basically the white pages
for the internet, where flicker.com
is. And it knows that
your server's going to ask
the white pages out on
the internet, where is flicker
dot Tom. And it won't
see that request, but it
can pretend to be the
response to that by letting
your DNS server with responses
of here's flicker dot Congress,
flicker.com, except that it's giving
it the wrong address so
that your site will blindly
trusted, send out a request
to establish a shared secret
with a spoofed copy of
flicker.com. So that that fake
server can now send that
forged authentication token. If it
can accomplish that, then somebody
can log in as anybody
essentially from flicker to your
blog. So again, that's why
H HTTPS is really important.
If you're logging into a
website using open ID, make
sure you're using an HTTPS
identifier so that somebody else
can't spoof your identity later
in the case of a
DNS poisoning attack. Okay. So
this was, this is actually
cause as a developer, this
is interesting, but what I
really want to know is
how is this going to
make me do one thing
or the other, make a
decision to develop my application?
And I'm hearing you say,
if I'm going to use
open ID, I really need
to use SSL. And should
I be doing additional verification
on the certificates as well?
You should enable as a
developer of the site, you
should enable certificate revocation list
checks, which is typically off
by default because it comes
with a small perfect. And
yes, you can consider just
turning, setting, open ID on
your site to only accept
SSL protected identifiers. For example,
for blogs, that's probably overkill,
but if you were going
to log into a site
that was carrying highly confidential
information, you definitely want this
protection in there. Yeah. How
much of that is going
to be done automatically by
your library versus what kind
of manual verification should I
be doing? It's a, dotnet
open off defaults to it.
It does have some protections
that supersede the standard open
ID spec in place that
are on by default when
they don't compromise interoperability, except
in obviously, and secure like
exploited cases. But there are
just a couple of settings
that you could easily just
change the true in your
web config file. For example,
to say, Hey, I want
to require SSL. And then
throughout the whole pipeline, both
at the browser and with,
you know, from server to
server communication and make sure
that SSL is always used,
there's even higher levels of
assurance that the us government
has come up with, that
they call it the open
ID profile that requires us
to sell and requires a
whole bunch of other restrictions
that make open ID even
more secure. And that, that
also is just a flip
of a switch and it
open off to turn that
all on. Hi, this is
Scott. I just want to
remind you guys that there's
no show without a sponsor,
someone who's going to pay
for all this bandwidth and
the more popular the show
becomes. The more important it
is that we thank our
sponsors folks like Tellerik I
wanna let you guys know
that Tellerik has got a
pretty cool deal going between
June 1st, 2010 and August 31st, 2010. Any interested
listener, just send an email
to podcast@telleriktlerik.com mentioned Hansel minutes
and they will reply and
they'll give you a special
$50 off coupon code. So
just remember podcast at
dot com mentioned Hansel minutes,
$50 off. This goes until
August 31st, 2010, and big thanks again
for the folks at Telerx
for believing in our show
and for continuing to help
pay for our expenses. I
use open ID for comments,
but I suppose it wouldn't
really matter if I didn't
make it really secure, but
I suppose if I was
doing online banking, I would
want to turn all those
things on and insist on
security. Absolutely. Although I don't
know any banks that actually
let you log into open
ID. There are some banks
or bank like websites that
are open ID providers. They
just haven't seen the, the
business risk as you know,
palatable to become relying parties.
And that is the really
interesting thing that term that
you just use, the Oop
or the RP, the originating
party, or the relying party,
the idea that it's a
chain of trust. So if
I'm a bank, do I
want to put, do I
want to trust flicker and
15 other sites, or do
I want to be a
trusted party? So you're saying
that it's more likely for
a bank as a big
trusted institution to become the
one that is trusted as
opposed to the one who
has to trust everyone. Right?
Because the bank doesn't know
it flickers authentication and security
rules are One of the
things that I've noticed on
my blog. And I don't
know if it's my implementation
or if it's an old
thing, but I know that
the number one complaint on
my blog is when people
log in with Google as
their open ID, which when
they click the little open
ID thing, Google shows up
and it's, you know, it
seems to be the most
popular one. I'm looking at
it. My most recent post
I've got six open ID
comments. So open ID is
very popular on my blog.
Three of them have this
crazy Google URL, Google slash
accounts slash ID, blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah. And they
all have the same identical.
Well, the other ones of
people who have open IDs
that are custom, you know,
it makes more sense. It
looks like the picture of
them. It uses their name.
What is the deal? Do
I have something wrong with
my implementation? Or is it
known that Google sucks in
this way? Google has pioneered
the actual use of something
called directed identity, which open
ID 2.0 made possible, which
gives users who log in
with their Google open ID
accounts, extra identity protection. The
result of that is a
very ugly open ID identifier,
which is what you're referring
to here at the UC
on your blog. It's not
something that anybody could understand,
and that was deliberate on
Google's part, but it doesn't
make for very good blog
comments. What people who accept
open these from Google seem
to be doing lately is
they do consume that URL.
That's awful to look at
internally, but what th but
while they're authenticating the user
with Google, they're also asking
for the user's full name
and or email address so
that they can display that
instead. Okay. That's a Google
thing you're saying I need
to treat Google differently. Yeah.
Google, well, Google has had,
has, has had some very
odd behaviors from other open
ID providers. They've actually changed
that to agree with the
behavior of a lot of
others, Google and Yahoo, both
can do this. Although Yahoo
is willing to give a
nicer looking one. So in
general, though, you can, you
can special case Google, if
you want to, or you
can just ask for the
email address and name. In
fact, you probably, I don't
know if you do or
not, but one of the
advantages of open ID, right,
is when that authentication token
comes back, you can get
the name and email address
of the person who's logging
in. So if you're, if
you're not requesting that yet,
you can do so when
you're going through Google and
then just display that instead
of the identifier and Google
will look nicer and possibly
so will everybody else's. Ah,
okay, well then I need
to talk to you about
fixing that because that is
a huge complaint and it
just, every open ID provider
out there works just fine,
but Google simply won't give
me their name and email
address. Ah, so I can
help you with that. They
Google and Yahoo both have
some special requirements before they'll
actually give a name, an
email address. And Google has
a unique one. Yeah. Is
that something that I can
do by, do you have
to change code to do
that? Cause I haven't rebuilt.
My version of Josh blog
has been extremely stable works
very, very nicely. It's been
wonderful for a couple of
years now, is this, is
this a matter of me
just changing some markups so
that Google talks to me
and says, Oh, that looks
nice. Or am I going
to go in and change
my handshake? It may. It
depends on how closely you
comply with Google's security requirements,
a an open ID site.
And I think, I think
we worked on this on
your blog already. So assuming
it, we had it working,
I don't recall whether we
finished it or not. Your
site does have to have
a special RP discovery feature
implemented so that Google can
see that indeed the authentication
requested come from your site.
And then when you make
the request to Google, you
need to ask for the
name and email address and
Mark them as required. When
you send, when a website
sends to Google and open
ID request, you can say,
these are the attributes about
the person that I want.
And I consider each one
either optional or required, Google
chooses to ignore all optional
requests. So you never get
the email address. If you
only say, Hey, I'd like
it. If I can get
it, but I'll take it
without it. We'll send it
without it. That's the trick.
That's the interesting thing. Even
if you Mark, I would
like the user's email address.
And then you say optional,
all of the other relying
parties will say, sure, here
you go, Google will not
give you anything unless you
say I need it. Otherwise
we're not talking at all.
Right. And the unfortunate thing
about that is if you
are willing to accept without
an email address, really, but
Mark, by upgrading a tree
required. Now Google users cannot
post to your blog using
their open ID, unless they're
willing to give up the
email address. Cause Google does
honor that part of the
open. I do spec where
if you Mark it required
authentication cannot continue unless they're
willing to do it. Whereas
with optional, it's supposed to
be as a check box,
right? The difficult thing is
that I'm not using their
email address. I'm not going
to email them. I'm not
going to bother them. I
just want to show a
little icon. I want to
show a Gravatar of what
this person looks like. And
what happens is since I
don't have an email address,
all I can use is
the Google account ID that
they gave me and put
up a generic icon, which
is very sad. That's right,
because you'll never get, Google
will never give you a
well known host name or
something that somebody could associated
Gravatar with because every, even
if somebody took that really
awful URL and associated a
Gravatar with it somewhere, they
would log into another using
the same Google account. And
that URL would be different,
which is what the directed
identity feature is all about.
So the Gravatar would once
again, be the default one,
which would be very frustrating
for users. However, there is
a new button that you
could add to your open
ID that would solve this
problem. That is in addition
to the Google open at
eight provider that you're using
now there's Google profiles is
now an open ID provider
as well, but it behaves
much more like the rest
of the open ID providers
and that you actually get
a reasonable URL that people
can recognize it has your
name in it. And it's
persistent across all the websites
you log into. So the
Gravatar thing works. Does everyone
have a Google profile already?
No, you have to actually
have visited Google profiles and
turned it on, but that's
a simple procedure and it
would, so it would be
is another next to the
Google button on your little
selector. You'd probably have to
Google profiles button or you
could, I don't know if
this would work. I haven't
tried it myself. Maybe replace
the Google button with the
Google profiles button and maybe
anybody who hasn't been to
Google profiles before will automatically
gets set up as part
of the log. And I
don't know. Well, you know,
the thing is that you
gotta to go where the
users are, right? And I'm
looking at such a typical
blog post here. I've got
six comments, three are Google
users and three aren't and
that's just so classic. So
I think I'm going to
make my application smarter. It
needs to, it needs to
work with Google, even though
Google is not a hundred
percent playing by the, the
open ID rules. Cool. So
one of the other things
that you and I worked
on was on nerd dinner,
nerd, dinner.com for mics this
year, we updated the site
that you can RSVP via
Twitter. So this is a
good opportunity to talk about
open, open auth. If you
go to nerdina.com and you
pick a dinner, you can
say RSP VP for the
event and this isn't, this
is an em VC site.
So this is not a
web form site like toss
blog is, but there's still
some URL stuff going on
here. We say, RSVP, Twitter
begin. We click on that.
It says, waiting for nerd
dinner. And then now I'm
over at twitter.com/oauth. And then
there's a token that's appeared.
And I'm just going to
put in my name and
password here. I hit sign
in. It says the application
nerd dinner by Scott Hanselman
would like you to sign
in using your Twitter account.
How did Twitter know that
Nerdina was asking for this?
That's a token that you
noticed in the URL a
moment ago, that token was
established between nerd dinner and
Twitter just before sending you
over there, which said not
only that it was nerd
dinner asking, but it associated
it with this particular user
so that when it comes
back to her dinner, dinner
knows where you left off.
So nerd dinner, the server
talked to Twitter a moment
ago and agreed on this
token and then sent it
over on the browser. Yep.
So that's interesting. So Would
open ID in the sense
that there's that server to
server interaction before the redirect,
except that with open ID,
that server to server interaction,
doesn't it doesn't always happen.
In fact, it usually doesn't
because the shared secret works
multiple times. Whereas with Oahu,
there is a unique token
for every single user login.
And that sounds better. It's
different. In fact, with OAuth
2.0, they're eliminating that step
entirely. So it's just a
different way to fulfill a
different scenario. If I go
to twitter.com and this became
a, this was a problem
last week, I'm going to
go to twitter.com and I'm
gonna click on settings at
the top here. And then
I'm going to go from
settings. I'm going to go
to connections, which is a
choice of this is a
Twitter thing. And in connections
is a huge list of
applications, way larger than I
would have expected. And these
are all it says, you
have allowed the following applications
to access your account. I'm
like, Oh, I remember that.
And I remember that. And
what is, what are all
these applications here? They typically
are the apps that you
have actually clicked sign in
with Twitter at, and many
of these apps, even though
they only claim to be
using your Twitter account to
let you log in and
that they won't actually post,
they don't bother limiting their
own access. And so if
you're reviewing these apps, you
can see this person has
read-write access to your flaw,
to your feed. And you
know, many of those you'll
think, Whoa, I didn't realize
I was granting permission. And
I thought I was just
logging in, which is one
of the advantages of, like
I said, going to this
page and reviewing so you
can revoke permission. So he
didn't mean to grant, Right?
I've actually written two applications
using open auth. I'm seeing
here nerd dinner.com by Scott
Hanselman approved on March 12th, read
and write access. And then
I go down a little
bit farther. Then I have
tweets sandwich, tweet sandwiches, my
program that lets a Quiznos
take orders over Twitter. And
it says, read only access.
So tweet sandwich can, can
use, it's shared secret. It's
holding a NH Mac, isn't
it. And it's in its
local database. And it can
use that kind of secret
personal onetime password for as
long as it wants to,
until I say, no, you
can't use it anymore. Yeah.
Some of these tokens can,
can have expiration dates in
them. Twitter doesn't build in
support for any of those
expiration dates. So you're right
until you cancel this or
until a tweet sandwich has
fallen out of favor with
Twitter so they could cancel
them all at once. Yeah.
They, they can read, read
your, your feed. And one
interesting thing is your, your
feet is public, right? Why
do you need read access
to read my feet? That
doesn't make any sense, except
you can actually send private
items or feed status updates
that are marked secret. So
that only people who are
following you can read them.
If you have read access
that is actually giving you
the permission to read those
private notices. So that is
more than public access. Oh,
interesting. I'm surprised that it's
a, I approve, I wrote
tweet sandwich. It says September, 2009.
We're almost a year later
and it can still talk
to Twitter And it's resilient
against changing passwords. And that's
something to keep in mind
as well. I mean, that's,
that's a selling point of
OAuth is since you never
gave away your password, you
can change your password without
disrupting all the apps that
you've authorized. But it also
means that if you suspect
that your account has been
compromised, typically the response to
that is I'll change my
password, but that doesn't disrupt
these connections. And so if
you think that it's one
of your apps, these apps
that you've authorized, that are
spamming your account or something
you need to go through
and change changing your password
is usually a good idea
anyway, but you need to
revoke access to the app.
That's doing the spamming specifically.
And what happened? Did you
notice what happened on Twitter?
Just a couple of days
ago around kind of open
auth applications, running wild and
spamming people. Yeah. I'd heard
about that. That's another one
of those unfortunate misconceptions about
OAuth is it, it provides
some security for the user
and that they don't have
to give their password to
some unknown party. But for
some reason, users don't think
anything about, well, I'm not
giving my password away. So
I'll just go ahead and
authorize this app because I'm
totally safe. Well, no, you
are authorizing the app to
spam your account. So you
should trust the app. Anyway.
It's just a benefit that
you don't have to give
away your password. So yeah,
about what apps you trust,
What happened was a guy,
a 17 year old boy,
actually not a guy wrote
an application called to efficiency
because apparently putting TW in
front of any word makes
it more awesome. Should change
it to 12 and off
or something like that. He
wrote a little application just
so he could learn open
off. And it would basically
log you in, look at
your tweets, apply some, you
know, magic dust to it,
come up with a number.
And then tweet, I just
checked my Twitter efficiency. It
was 8%. And then everyone
ever of course Twitter is
run almost entirely by, by
ego and, and hubris. So
everyone's like, Oh, what's my
true efficiency. So we all
run off. And because it's
a thing that tweets your
two efficiency, then it would
cause more people to want
to go and see it.
But the issue was that
it was tweeting, meaning it
was writing to your account
without asking, right. That's not
something that really has anything
to do with open auth.
That's more of an etiquette
thing. Wouldn't you say? Yeah.
A loss can't can't solve
that problem. It's it. If
you're logging in or giving
that app from the 17
year old permission to write
to your, to your feed,
then OWAS at that point,
get comes out of the
picture. It was there to
establish the authorization. And after
that, the app can do
whatever it wants. Exactly. Exactly.
It's funny how that, how
that works. I I'm glad
that people realized it was
an etiquette issue and not
a protocol issue. What do
I need to do to
get started? If I want
to go right now and
add open ID or open
off to my application, If
it's a.net application, you can
go download.net open off and
look at the samples and
get started. We've got authorization
server, which is our service
provider in auth 1.0 terms
and consumer samples, as well
as helping ID relying party
and open ID provider samples.
So everything that you could
date is there, Oh, off
by the way, worked for
desktop and web applications. Whereas
open ID is strictly just
web applications. So dot little
pop has some samples for
all of those things. If
you aren't using dotnet, if
you're using PHP or one
of the many others, you
can go to either open
id.net or  dot net,
those sites themselves and click
on libraries and there's dozens
of libraries available for the
many other web platforms out
there. Very cool. And this
is just www.net  dot
net. That's right. Very cool.
Thanks Andrew, for educating me
about this, I really appreciate
it. I think that lots
of people out there are
writing their own membership systems
and really we should stop
storing names and passwords and
password hashes and our own
databases. If somebody is already
got a login, we should
use it. That's right. And
it's really important. As you're
writing these apps use a
library. A lot of people
think, Oh, these libraries are
big. It's an extra dependency.
I'll just write, I'll just
implement open ID or off
myself to every time somebody
thinks that they write a
very buggy implementation that is
worse than just taking, using
the password from the user.
So it's really important to
use a well established, trusted
library. Don't try to write
a security library yourself. It's
just too hazardous. Well, I
can definitely attest to that.
I remember when I started
with DAS blog and you'll
probably remember as well. I
figured, Oh, I'll just, just
do a little ICP post
over here and it'll be
no problem. It was so
much easier. And I remember
when we did the nerd
dinner sample, we were able
to get that working a
couple of hours. So it
was really trivial. It's not
once you understand the flow,
it's not difficult at all.
Yeah. Awesome. Well, this has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.